Measurements and Data 

Purpose: The measurements and data done are for the purpose of getting more comfortable using the metric system and how to collect data. For example; measurements are very important in the medical field, wrong measurements can cause very serious mistakes.  

Procedure: Measurements were conducted for; linear, volume, mass, pH, and time.  
In the linear measurements we measured the length, width, and depth, then converted these measurements within the metric system. 
In the volume measurements we measured volume with a beaker and a graduated cylinder, then converted the volume within the metric system. 
In the mass measurements we weighed the mass on a scale and were able to convert the mass weight within the metric system. 
In the pH measurements we were able to find the type of level of acidic by using a dipping testing strip in different liquid bases. 
In the time measurements we figured out how to count our heartbeat per second, minute and millisecond. 

Results: The notebook's length was 2,800mm and converted to 280.0cm. 
The notebook's width was 80.5mm and converted to 8.05cm. 
The notebook's depth was 5.5mm and converted to 0.55cm. 
The volume from the beaker was 75ml and converted to 0.075liters. 
The volume from the graduated cylinder was 64ml and converted to 0.064liters. 
The mass, which was my phone, weighed 227,340mg and converted to 227.34g. 
The mass from the beaker weighed 85,280mg and converted to 85.28g. 
The pH measurements of the liquids provided for us was level 4 in container A. 
Container B had level 7, and container C had level 9. 
The time measurements were done by counting how many beats there were in 15sec and 60 sec to determine the pulse rate. 1.33 beats per second and 79.8 beats per minute.  

Discussion: Using the metric system conversion chart helped to get the results needed. The trends noticed were how easy it got as we went through the questions of conversions very easily. Using the scale was very easy to use, with time on the other hand, it was hard to convert from second to minutes and then to milliseconds, but using a table helped. 

Conclusion: The findings of each and all experiments were successfully accomplished and well understood, the importance of figuring out measurements was understood as well. Moving forward, I will take what I learned during this experiment and use it when needed during this class.  
